.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 10, 2015
.Dt LGRAB 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Lgrab
.Nd obtain a handle to control a thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft "struct ps_lwphandle *"
.Fo Lgrab
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Lgrab
function is used to obtain a control handle to a thread contained inside
the process represented by
.Fa P
that is suitable for use with other
.Sy libproc
routines.
.Pp
The thread is specified by its thread identifier, which is placed in the
.Fa lwpid
argument. The identifier can be obtained from the
.Sy pr_lwpid
of the
.Sy lwpstatus_t
structure for a thread.
.Pp
The
.Fa perr
argument must point to a valid pointer that will be used to store an
error code in the event that
.Fn Lgrab
is unable to successfully obtain a handle to the process. The possible
errors are defined below in the
.Sx ERRORS
section and it may be transformed into a human readable string through
the use of
.Xr Lgrab_error 3PROC .
.Pp
The handle to the thread is valid until the
.Xr Lfree 3PROC
function is called, which also releases associated resources from the
handle. Only a single handle to a specific thread may exist at any
time. If the handle already exists and another caller attempts to grab
that thread, it will result in an error. The caller must call
.Fn Lfree
before releasing the handle associated with
.Fa P .
.Pp
Unlike grabbing a process, grabbing a thread does not change the current
state of the thread. If it is running, it will remain running. If it is
stopped, it will remain stopped.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion the
.Fn Lgrab
function returns a pointer to the control handle for the specified
thread. Otherwise, the
.Dv NULL
pointer is returned and
.Fa perr
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Lgrab
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er G_BUSY
Another handle already exists for the thread identified by
.Fa lwpid .
The handle need not exist in the current process and may exist in
another process.
.It Er G_NOPROC
The thread identified by
.Fa lwpid
does not exist or has already become a zombie.
.It Er G_STRANGE
An unanticipated system error occurred while trying to create the
handle. When this occurs, then the value of
.Sy errno
is meaningful. See
.Xr errno 3C
for more information and
.Xr Intro 2
for the list of possible errors.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr errno 3C ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Lfree 3PROC ,
.Xr Lgrab_error 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
