.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 13, 2015
.Dt PGRAB 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pgrab
.Nd grab and control a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft "struct ps_prochandle *"
.Fo Pgrab
.Fa "pid_t pid"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pgrab
function attempts to grab the process identified by
.Fa pid
and returns a handle to it that allows the process to be controlled,
interrogated, and manipulated. This interface only works with processes
that already exist. For core files, instead use
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC
and to create processes, instead see
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC .
.Pp
By default, when a process is stopped the following changes happen to
it, unless values are passed in via
.Fa flags
to the contrary:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
The process will be stopped
.It
All other tracing flags will be cleared
.It
The grab will be exclusive. If any existing handles to this process
exist or anyone else is using the underlying facilities of the /proc
file system to control this process, it will fail.
.It
Unless the process was already stopped, the
.Dv PR_RLC
flag will be set on the process indicating that it should
run-on-last-close. This allows for cases where if the controlling
process dies, the process will resume running even though it was stopped
by grabbing it.
.El
.Pp
The above list describes the common things that will happen when
grabbing a process. Grabbing a process should always be considered a
.Em destructive
action. Stopping a process causes all threads to stop executing. The
impact of stopping a process depends on the purpose of that process. For
example, if one stops a process that's doing primarily computation, then
the only major impact will be that it will be delayed during the entire
time that it is stopped. However, if instead this is an active TCP
server, then the accept backlog may fill causing connection errors and
potentially connection time out errors.
.Pp
In addition, special care must be taken to ensure that a stopped process
continues, even if the controlling process terminates. By default the
.Dv PR_RLC
flag is enabled. However, if a caller disables that flag or the process
was already stopped, then when the program terminates, it will leave the
process stopped. Callers should exercise caution when changing this
behavior.
.Pp
Many of these default behaviors can be controlled by passing values to
the
.Fa flags
argument. Values for
.Fa flags
are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive-OR of flags from the following
list:
.Bl -tag -width Dv -offset indent
.It Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
Indicates that any existing tracing flags on
.Fa pid
should be retained. If this flag is not specified, they will be cleared
as part of creating the
.Sy libproc
handle for this process.
.Pp
Normally extant tracing flags are cleared when a process is grabbed.
.It Dv PGRAB_FORCE
Indicates that the process should not be grabbed exclusively. Care
should be taken with this option. If other consumers are manipulating
the process, then this may result in surprising behavior as the process
is being manipulated from multiple points of control at the same time.
.Pp
Normally an attempt will be made to grab the process exclusively and
fail if it is already in use.
.It Dv PGRAB_RDONLY
Indicates that the process should be grabbed in a read-only fashion.
This implies that both the
.Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
and
.Dv PGRAB_NOSTOP
flags should be set. If a process is opened read-only, then a caller can
only read information about a process and cannot manipulate it, change
its current state, or inject systems calls into it.
.Pp
Normally when a process is grabbed, it does so for both reading and
writing.
.It Dv PGRAB_NOSTOP
When the process is opened, do not stop the process and instead allow it
to continue running. Note, any extant tracing flags on the process will
still be cleared unless the
.Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
flag has been set.
.Pp
Normally a process is stopped as a result of grabbing the process.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fa perr
argument must be a
.Pf non- Dv NULL
pointer which will store a more detailed error in the event that the
.Fn Pgrab
function fails. A human-readable form of the error can be obtained
through the routine
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC .
.Pp
Once a caller is done with the library handle it should call
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
to release the grabbed process. Failure to properly release the handle
may leave a process stopped and interfere with the ability of other
software to obtain a handle.
.Ss Permissions
Unprivileged users may grab and control their own processes only if both
the user and group ids of the target process match those of the calling
process. In addition, the caller must have a super set of the target's
privileges. Processes with the
.Sy PRIV_PROC_OWNER
privilege may manipulate any process on the system, as long as it has an
equal privilege set. For more details on the security and programming
considerations, please see the section
.Sy PROGRAMMING NOTES
in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pgrab
function returns a control handle to the process. Otherwise,
.Dv NULL
is returned and
.Fa perr
is filled in with an error code.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Pgrab
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er G_BUSY
The process
.Fa pid
is already being traced and the
.Dv PGRAB_FORCE
flag was not passed in
.Fa flags .
.It Er G_LP64
The calling process is a 32-bit process and process
.Fa pid
is 64-bit.
.It Er G_NOFD
Too many files are open. This is logically equivalent to receiving
.Er EMFILE .
.It Er G_NOPROC
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
does not exist.
.It Er G_PERM
The calling process has insufficient permissions or privileges to open
the specified process. See
.Sx Permissions
for more information.
.It Er G_SYS
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is a system process and cannot be grabbed.
.It Er G_SELF
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is the process ID of the caller and the
.Dv PGRAB_RDONLY
was not passed. A process may only grab itself if it's read-only.
.It Er G_STRANGE
An unanticipated system error occurred while trying to grab the process
file and create the handle.
The value of
.Sy errno
indicates the system failure.
.It Er G_ZOMB
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is a zombie and cannot be grabbed.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr errno 3C ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pfree 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Preleae 3PROC
