.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 28, 2015
.Dt PSTOPSATUS 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pdstop ,
.Nm Pstopstatus ,
.Nm Pstop ,
.Nm Pwait ,
.Nm Ldstop
.Nm Lstop ,
.Nm Lwait
.Nd process and thread stop operations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pdstop
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Pstopstatus
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "long request"
.Fa "uint_t msec"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Pstop
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Pwait
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Ldstop
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lstop
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lwait
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pstopstatus
function allows the caller to stop and optionally wait for the process
handle referred to by
.Fa P
to be stopped. Stopping a process causes all of its threads to stop
execution until the threads are resumed through functions such as
.Xr Psetrun 3PROC
and commands such as
.Xr prun 1 .
The place in the process where threads will be stopped is undefined.
.Pp
The
.Fa request
argument may be one of the following symbols:
.Bl -tag -width Dv -offset indent
.It Dv PCSTOP
Directs the process represented by
.Fa P
to stop and waits for it to stop before returning.
.It Dv PCDSTOP
Directs the process represented by
.Fa P
to stop, but does not wait for it to stop before returning. The process
will complete the stop request asynchronously.
.It Dv PCWSTOP
Directs the caller to block until the process represented by
.Fa P
has stopped, but does not itself direct
.Fa P
to stop.
.It Dv PCNULL
Does not direct the process represented by
.Fa P
to stop, but refreshes the state of the process.
.El
.Pp
Both the
.Dv PCSTOP
and
.Dv PCWSTOP
requests allow for an upper bound on the amount of time to wait for the
process referred to by
.Fa P
to stop. The
.Fa msec
argument indicates the number of milliseconds to wait for the stop to
complete. If the value of
.Fa msec
is
.Sy 0 ,
then it will wait forever. Callers should pass
.Sy 0
for
.Fa msec
when the request is
.Dv PCDSTOP
or
.Dv PCNULL .
.Pp
When a non-zero timeout is specified, the process referred to by
.Fa P
may or may not be stopped at the conclusion of the timeout. The return
value does not reflect the final state obtained by the process. For
example, if the timeout expires with the
.Fa PCWSTOP
request, the return value will be
.Sy 0
regardless of the actual state of the process
.Fa P .
.Pp
Only actively process may be stopped. Handles that refer to core files,
zombie processes, or files cannot be used, unless the value of
.Fa request
is set to
.Dv PCNULL .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pstop
function is is equivalent to calling the
.Fn Pstopstatus
function with the request set to
.Dv PCSTOP
and with an infinite timeout.
.Pp
The
.Fn Pwait
function is is equivalent to calling the
.Fn Pstopstatus
function with the request set to
.Dv PCWSTOP
and with an infinite timeout.
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdstop
function is is equivalent to a calling the
.Fn Pstopstatus
function with the request set to
.Dv PCDSTOP .
.Pp
The
.Fn Ldstop ,
.Fn Lstop ,
and
.Fn Lwait
functions are equivalent to the
.Fn Pdstop ,
.Fn Pstop ,
and
.Fn Pwait
functions respectively, except rather than operating on the process, it
instead operates only on the thread handle
.Fa L .
A call to
.Fn Lstop
will only cause a single thread to stop where as the
.Fn Pstop
function would cause every thread to stop.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pdstop ,
.Fn Pstopstatus ,
.Fn Pstop ,
.Fn Pwait ,
.Fn Ldstop ,
.Fn Lstop ,
and
.Fn Lwait
functions return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Dv errno
is set to indicate the error that occurred.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors also see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdstop ,
.Fn Pstopstatus ,
.Fn Pstop ,
and
.Fn Pwait
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EAGAIN
Control over the handle
.Fa P
was lost. Callers should call
.Xr Preopen 3PROC .
For more information on losing control, see
.Sy PROGRAMMING NOTES
in
.Xr proc 4 .
.It Er ENOENT
The request was not
.Dv PCNULL
and the process handle
.Fa P
does not refer to an active process, but refers to a core file, a zombie
process, or a file.
.It Er EINVAL
.Fa request
is not valid or the process is in an unknown state to the library.
.It Er EPROTO
A fatal protocol error occurred and the process could not be stopped.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Lgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
