.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 11, 2015
.Dt PUNAME 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Puname
.Nd get uname information from a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Puname
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "struct utsname *u"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Puname
function obtains the operating system information from the process
handle
.Fa P
and copies it into
.Fa u .
.Pp
For an active process or zombie process, this is the same information
that is obtained from the
.Xr utsname 2
function. For core files, if available, it will be the information about
the system at the time the core was dumped.
.Pp
Handles that correspond to ELF objects do not have any uname information
available.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Puname
function returns
.Sy 0
and updates the information at
.Fa u .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Puname
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
.Fa P
is a handle that corresponds to an ELF object or
.Fa P
is a handle that corresponds to a core file and that information is not
available in the core file.
.It Er EFAULT
.Fa P
is a handle that corresponds to an active process and
.Fa u
is a bad address.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr uname 1 ,
.Xr uname 2 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB
